MDN Feature Pages for SVGAnimatedBoolean (#37069)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/svganimatedboolean/baseval/index.md

---
title: "SVGAnimatedBoolean: baseVal property"
short-title: baseVal
slug: Web/API/SVGAnimatedBoolean/baseVal
page-type: web-api-instance-property
browser-compat: api.SVGAnimatedBoolean.baseVal
---

{{APIRef("SVG")}}

> The **`baseVal`** property of the {{domxref("SVGAnimatedBoolean")}} interface reflects the base (non-animated) boolean value of the associated SVG attribute. It is writable and represents the current value before any animations are applied.
> 
> ## Value
> 
> A `boolean` representing the base value of the reflected attribute:
> 
> - `true` if the reflected attribute is `"true"`.
> - `false` if the reflected attribute is `"false"` or not present.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`baseVal`** property of the {{domxref("SVGAnimatedBoolean")}} interface is the value of the associated animateable boolean SVG attribute in its base (none-animated) state. It reflects the value of the associated animateable boolean attribute when no animations are applied.

Some boolean SVG attributes, such as [`preserveAlpha`](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/preserveAlpha), are animateble. In such cases, `SVGAnimatedBoolea.baseVal` property is `false` when the attribute is set to `false`, is omitted and defaults to `false`, or is inheritable and inherits `false`. Otherwise, the value is `true`. 

## Value

A boolean; the base value of the reflected attribute.
```
